README.md, before:

# psfill
In order to fill out your PS I or PS II preferences, you have to use the BITS PS department's [portal](http://psd.bits-pilani.ac.in).

There you'll find this absolutely *beautiful* UI (note the sarcasm in my voice here) where you have to slowly drag and drop
hundred of tiles to get the ordering you want. No filters, no sorting tools, nothing. Everything has to be done manually.
This is slow, painful, and completely pointless.

Let's make something here clear: The portal's UI is absolutely stupid and damn painful to use.
Who ever made this portal is a **complete** idiot. Let's just leave it at that (but seriously, what the heck were they thinking?!).

I didn't want to put up with that BS so I took the time to analyze the portal (using Burp Suite) and then build this
tool where you can simply create a text file with the order you want, specify your username, password and what cities
you can provide your own accommodation in, and then run this script and be done with it.

### Setup and Usage
You'll need Python 3 to run the script and Pip for Python 3 to install some dependencies for this script.

1. Clone this repo. If you have git then use: `git clone https://github.com/Hypro999/psfill.git` If you don't then you can
simply [download](https://github.com/Hypro999/psfill/archive/master.zip) a zip file for this code and then extract it.

2. Create a credentials file. To do this, create a file called "credentials.txt" inside this repo and in it, add your
credentials like so:
```
username: mybitsemailid
password: mypsdportalpassword
```
If you want to specify which cities you can provide acco for, then you can specify them as comma separated values
under a `acco` field. For example:
```
acco: Hyderabad
```
or
```
acco: Hyderabad, Bangalore
```
Mind the case though. Cities are proper nouns and should be capitalized ;)

3. Now specify your preference order in the stations.txt file. For the sake of an example I've pre-populated this
with the stations for the PS II of 2020-2021 Semester 1 as of Jun 28th, 2020, alphabetically ordered. If you need
to update this, then use a script to generate a default list (or do it manually if you enjoy pain). Now you can
easily reorder these to your liking (e.g. in vim you can use stuff like `d5j` to take a block of stations and then
move them to the wherever you want. In other text editors you can select multiple lines using the shift key or your
mouse. You get the idea).

4. Install the required dependencies. Since this code uses the [requests library](https://github.com/psf/requests) and
[beautifulsoup4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) we will need to install them and their dependencies.
This is pretty easy, just run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from inside the repo (folder). For people already
comfortable with Python, you can use a virtualenvironment since even if you have the libraries, the versions might differ.

5. Now all we have to do is run the script with `python main.py`.

6. Login to the portal and just make sure that everything looks alright. Don't blame me if something goes wrong, use
this script at your own risk (though it should be pretty safe to use, I've tested it quite a bit).

Note: This tool hasn't been dockerized since that would be pretty unnecessary/overkill for a simple tool like this
which has only a few dependencies and can easily be run cross-platform.

### Contribution
Want to contribute and make this script better? Awesome! Just open a PR or an issue and we can talk about it. I'd
be really happy to merge good changes into this codebase.

Commit message:

updated README and minor changes

README.md, after:

# psfill
In order to fill out your PS I or PS II preferences, you have to use the BITS PS department's [portal](http://psd.bits-pilani.ac.in).

There you'll find this absolutely *beautiful* UI (note the sarcasm in my voice here) where you have to slowly drag and drop
hundred of tiles to get the ordering you want. No filters, no sorting tools, nothing. Everything has to be done manually.
This is slow, painful, and completely pointless.

Let's make something here clear: The portal's UI is absolutely stupid and damn painful to use.
Who ever made this portal is a **complete** idiot. Let's just leave it at that (but seriously, what the heck were they thinking?!).

I didn't want to put up with that BS so I took the time to analyze the portal (using Burp Suite) and then build this
tool where you can simply create a text file with the order you want, specify your username, password and what cities
you can provide your own accommodation in, and then run this script and be done with it.

### Setup and Usage
You'll need Python 3 to run the script and Pip for Python 3 to install some dependencies for this script.

1. Clone this repo. If you have git then use: `git clone https://github.com/Hypro999/psfill.git` If you don't then you can
simply [download](https://github.com/Hypro999/psfill/archive/master.zip) a zip file for this code and then extract it.

2. Create a credentials file. To do this, create a file called "credentials.txt" inside this repo and in it, add your
credentials like so:
```
username: mybitsemailid
password: mypsdportalpassword
```
If you want to specify which cities you can provide acco for, then you can specify them as comma separated values
under a `acco` field. For example:
```
acco: Hyderabad
```
or
```
acco: Hyderabad, Bangalore
```
Mind the case though. Cities are proper nouns and should be capitalized ;)

3. Now specify your preference order in the stations.txt file. For the sake of an example I've pre-populated this
with the stations for the PS II of 2020-2021 Semester 1 as of Jun 28th, 2020, alphabetically ordered. You can generate an updated PS list by appending a command line argument to the script. To generate the list, just type in `python main.py -g`. Now you can easily reorder these to your liking (e.g. in vim you can use stuff like `d5j` to take a block of stations and thenmove them to the wherever you want. In other text editors you can select multiple lines using the shift key or your
mouse. You get the idea).

4. Install the required dependencies. Since this code uses the [requests library](https://github.com/psf/requests) and
[beautifulsoup4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) we will need to install them and their dependencies.
This is pretty easy, just run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from inside the repo (folder). For people already
comfortable with Python, you can use a virtualenvironment since even if you have the libraries, the versions might differ.

5. Now all we have to do is run the script with `python main.py`.

6. Login to the portal and just make sure that everything looks alright. Don't blame me if something goes wrong, use
this script at your own risk (though it should be pretty safe to use, I've tested it quite a bit).

Note: This tool hasn't been dockerized since that would be pretty unnecessary/overkill for a simple tool like this
which has only a few dependencies and can easily be run cross-platform.

### Contribution
Want to contribute and make this script better? Awesome! Just open a PR or an issue and we can talk about it. I'd
be really happy to merge good changes into this codebase.
